Now that we understand the steps that we need to go through, the first thing we need to look at is,
well, how are we going to build a standalone app?
Because currently our app is mainly running inside of this expo interface.
So getting it outside of that expo interface is something that we need to focus on.
Now, the purpose of this guide inside of Expo is to help us understand how to create the standalone
binaries binaries.
What is a binary?
Well, a binary is an output.
So think of it like a little box.
And in that box, we're going to put everything we need for iOS and everything we need for Android in
order to run our app as an app itself on the phone instead of running it inside of Expo.
Right.
We want it to show up here on this screen as a standalone app.
So we're going to be building what we call binaries of our iOS and Android app that eventually can be
submitted to the App Store and the play store.
Now, something that you need to understand here is that in order to do this, Apple has something called
an Apple developer account, which you need in order to build iOS standalone apps.
But the Google Play developer account is not needed to build the Android standalone app.
So we're looking at different sets of requirements here.
Apple has a way more strict environment when it comes to deploying applications.
They require you to pay for a developer account.
They require you to have an iOS device, Android.
However, it can run on Linux, Mac, Windows.
It doesn't really matter and you don't really need the developer account in order to build your Android
app.
They just let you do it out of the box.
Now, if you'd like to submit either app to the App Store, you do need that developer account.
So the difference here is iOS.
You need the developer account to build it locally and even submit it.
Google, you don't need the Google Play developer account to build it locally, but you do need it to
submit to the store.
So it's a good idea to read the best practices of deploying to the app stores to ensure that our app
is in good shape.
But the difference here is that these now that we've reached the point at which we're going to deploy,
we're coming into contact with the differences of the different environments.
Right.
We're coming into contact with how Apple works versus how Google works.
And so when we look at these differences, this is when a lot of the meta work starts meta, meaning
that we have to do a lot of due diligence and make sure that we're building for the right platform,
that we have the right things set in place, that we have the right accounts set up and all of that
good stuff.
And that's, again, one of the reasons that we want you to just follow along, because getting an Apple
developer account, first of all, costs ninety nine dollars a year.
So when we go through the process of looking at how to build these standalone apps, the first thing
we need is to install the CLI.
Well, good thing we install that when we started off our journey.
So we have the Xbox CLI.
Now, if you haven't created an actual account, you should create one when running the build command
because what that's going to do is it's going to link that build to your account inside of your project
here.
Right.
So you'll have a project meals to go into the link, the build to your project.
Once we go through and build it, Windows users must additionally have WSO installed.
Now this is Windows subsystem Linux.
So it's an additional step that you need to go through on Windows in order to go through the management
procedure of being able to build.
That's why we suggest follow along and understand the build procedure.
What I want to do, what I want to focus on is building a standalone app for every platform separately.
So every one of these platforms, Android and iOS, is going to have specific built steps.
So let's go through looking at how to build for Android and then look at how to build for iOS.